<h1>Critical Thinking and Critical Conversations</h1>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">This module is designed to review some of the basic concepts of rhetoric and the rhetorical situation that form the foundation of your work in the course. Part of being a researcher involves participating in an academic conversation. Kenneth Burke, a 20th century philosophy and theorist, posed this metaphor that can be applied to the academic conversation:</span></p>
<blockquote>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;"><span>Imagine that you enter a parlor. You come late. When you arrive, others have long preceded you, and they are engaged in a heated discussion, a discussion too heated for them to pause and tell you exactly what it is about. In fact, the discussion had already begun long before any of them got there, so that no one present is qualified to retrace for you all the steps that had gone before. You listen for a while, until you decide that you have caught the tenor of the argument; then you put in your oar. Someone answers; you answer him; another comes to your defense; another aligns himself against you, to either the embarrassment or gratification of your opponent, depending upon the quality of your ally's assistance. However, the discussion is interminable. The hour grows late, you must depart. And you do depart, with the discussion still vigorously in progress. - </span><a href="https://books.google.com/books/about/The_Philosophy_of_Literary_Form.html?id=9zuXtQtNbowC" target="_blank">The Philosophy of Literary Form, </a>110-111</span></p>
</blockquote>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">So, if y<span><span>ou</span></span> think about your major or discipline as the co<span><span>nversation</span></span>, the writing you'll do for this c<span><span>ourse</span></span> will he<span><span>lp</span></span> y<span><span>ou</span></span> e<span><span>nter</span></span> the c<span><span>onversation</span></span>. Another term for this idea is <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discourse_community" target="_blank">discourse c<span><span>ommunity</span></span></a>. Being a successful researcher requires that y<span><span>ou</span></span> d<span><span>evelop</span></span> a keen u<span><span>nderstanding</span></span> of your fiend's discourse c<span><span>ommunity</span></span>. The f<span><span>irst</span></span> st<span><span>eps</span></span> are to d<span><span>evelop</span></span> an u<span><span>nderstanding</span></span> of <a href="http://owl.excelsior.edu/posts/view/13" target="_blank">a<span><span>udience</span></span> </a>a<span><span>nd</span></span> <a href="http://owl.excelsior.edu/posts/view/12" target="_blank">purpose</a>. The next <span><span>tw</span></span>o pages of co<span><span>ntent</span></span> <span><span>wi</span></span>ll h<span><span>elp</span></span> y<span><span>ou</span></span> t<span><span>hink</span></span> some more about what it m<span><span>eans</span></span> to en<span><span>ter</span></span> an ac<span><span>ademic</span></span> c</span><span><span style="font-size: medium;"><span>onversation</span>.</span> </span></p>

<h1>Critical Thinking and Rhetoric</h1>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">Take a look at the video lecture below (or read the transcript). What do you remember about rhetoric from your First-Year composition course? Do the words <em>logos, pathos, </em>and<em> ethos</em> ring a bell? This short video will help you remember some of the concepts you learned before, and explain how they relate to the research writing you will do in this class. </span></p>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;"> </span></p>
<p><iframe width="640" height="480" style="display: block; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/1gs40XEazSU" frameborder="0"></iframe></p>
<p> </p>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">The next page in this Learning Module is an external link. When you're done reading the article, make sure you come back here to finish the module!</span></p>