# The Exploratory Essay
The exploratory essay is the first major writing project you will complete for this course. It is designed to introduce you to the academic conversations and research taking place in your field. If you've already completed your major classes and you know about those conversations already, this assignment is designed to help you reflect on your field, and prepare you for the next step in your academic or professional career.

This module is designed to get you started with this essay project. In the first section, we will walk you through the assignment description, and explain all the required components of this essay. Then, we'll walk you through the process of finding journals and information about them using the library's online resources. Finally, we'll conclude with an explanation of the anatomy of an academic article. At the end of the module, you'll have an optional workshop/exercise that can help you work through your own article.

## Understanding the Assignment 

[View Assignment Description(external link)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/131qhKTsXtqAdKMY2EmxPDyb_8axHCisGNypNLFhC0Cw/edit)

This section will walk you through each part of the exploratory essay assignment to make sure you have everything you need to succeed.

The first section of the assignment description is purpose. It's pretty self explanatory, but you might want to focus on that last part. Most students use the topic they discover in this unit to continue their larger research project for the rest of the semester. So, it's probably worth the extra time and effort to find an article or topic you are really interested in. You might, for example, choose an article that deals with a part of your field that you don't know much about. The upcoming assignmentxs wont be very interesting if you read about things you already know. 

The audience for this assignment is usually what students have a hard time with. The assignment describes this audience as a "beginning student in your discipline." But what does that mean in practical terms? It might make more sense for you to think about a general, educated audience of your peers.That means you don't need to define or explain concepts that the average college student would know about already. However, you can't assume that your audience fully understands specialized terms of concepts that your artticle may be addressing. It's important to figure out that balance, and this essay is your first opportunity to begin working on it.

## Learning about a Journal
In this video, I walk you through how to locate the journal Social Work, and show you how to find out more information about the journal. This information will help you with this week's activities and with assignment #1. Watch the video in full screen if you're having trouble seeing it. 

[YouTube Video: Scholarly Journals](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p2C5mQg4T-A)

## How to Summarize a Journal article
How to read, take notes on, and summarize an academic article: Link to WikiHow Resourcs: [How to Summarize a Journal Article](http://www.wikihow.com/Summarize-a-Journal-Article)

## What do Look for when Analyzing an Article's Argument 
*CC-By 3.0, Karla Lyles and the Writing 250 Committee, 2015* 

**Abstract:**

Remember the abstract is the synopsis, or overview, of the article, so often you will find the article’s thesis (or at least the author’s/authors’ major finding) stated in this section. This can be useful when you are first reading and analyzing the article because it is a quick way to identify the argument you will be evaluating.


**Introduction:**

The introduction is similar to the abstract in some ways in that it will identify the topic of the author’s/authors’ research and research question (sometimes specifically referred to as the research question (RQ) and/or formatted to set it off from the rest of the text) as well as typically briefly indicate the method(s) the author(s) used to collect data. In addition, the introduction may suggest the significance, or value, of the research, and include the thesis/argument of the article.

Referring to the introduction can be useful to determine what the author’s/authors’ intended purpose was for his/her/their research and evaluating whether that purpose was fulfilled. In addition, knowing the research question(s enables you to evaluate whether you think the method(s) used to collect data/information was/were appropriate, which may affect your analysis.

**Literature review** (this may be included with the introduction):

The literature review synthesizes previous relevant studies, including their findings, methods, and gaps/flaws/limitations. It serves multiple functions:  

1. enhancing the author’s credibility by demonstrating he/she is familiar with the literature;
2. establishing the current state of knowledge about the topic; and
3. underscoring the significance of the author’s research by indicating the gap in previous research it addresses or the limitation it overcomes.

The literature review is an important section of the article to refer to when evaluating the argument because the author uses it to establish why his/her research is needed. If the author does not effectively persuade you of the need for his/her research, then that likely will impact how you evaluate the quality of his/her argument.