# The Prospectus
What is a prospectus? Literally, it's a "forward look," from the Latin root words. Basically, it's a formal proposal for something you want to do. A research prospectus is a formal proposal for a research project that you want to conduct. If you think back to the informal topic proposal, the prospectus is essentially an expansion of that. When you wrote it, you had to think about how it could serve as the framework for future projects: well, the prospectus is the logical result of that frame. Don't forget, you are proposing a research project. You don't already have the answer to your research question. You may have a hypothesis, but the whole purpose of the proposal is to secure approval to conduct a study to either confirm or refute that hypothesis. If that still doesn't make sense, another way to think of a prospectus is as a sales pitch. Imagine you are trying to get a group of people to fund your project. They need assurances that you are credible and that your project is a valid one for the field before they give you their money. In some ways, this assignment is like a sales pitch for research.

The prospectus is in large part a combination of work you have already done this semester. Your literature review, annotated bibliography, and journal entries all contribute in different ways to the larger prospectus document. The "new" material for the prospectus consists primarily of the primary research plan you will be describing and the reflection and report on the in-class mini-survey. You'll combine these with a condensed version of the literature review, an introduction, conclusion, and finally an abstract to assemble the prospectus.

## What should the Prospectus do?
The prospectus, or research study design, basically as four different objectives. First, and most importantly, you should explain what you hope to prove or accomplish with this research project. This is the "why" question. What is the larger significance of your project to the field? To whom does it matter, and why? Second, you will condense the literature review you wrote in Assignment 3 into a literature review section for the Prospectus. This provides an essential foundation of secondary research, upon which your project will be built. Thirdly, you must show that your project is feasible and possible. The emphasis here should be placed on whether or not a well-informed person would deem your project to be realistic for your specific field. Finally, show that your project is useful. This is where the "gap" you were supposed to address in the literature review comes in. Show that the research project is necessary, and solves a problem that doesn't already have a clear, agreed upon solution.

Summary:
* Explain what you hope to prove in your research
* Present secondary sources in a literature review
* Show that the project is feasible
* Show that the project is useful

## Primary Research and the Mini Survey 
Part of your prospectus will be a reflection and report on the mini-survey activity you will be creating. Since this is an online class, it isn't practical for me to ask you to go out and do actual primary research. Instead, you're going to design a simple online survey, distribute it to each other, and then analyze the results. Realize that you probably won't get extremely relevant results from this survey. That isn't the point. The point is to design questions, distribute a survey, and then analyze the answers to those questions to try to develop good strategies for designing surveys. You'll be designing your questions as a part of a journal activity, and then you will distribute the survey to your classmates to collect their responses.

Since your subject pool is other WRIT 250 students, think about what kinds of feedback they can give you on your research project. This might require thinking outside the box a bit. For example, if your research project is about prisoner recidivism, most of your subjects probably are not ex-cons. However, you could ask them questions about their feelings towards ex-cons, what experience they may have working with ex-cons, or whether or not they know any ex-cons who have had trouble staying straight. Again, the point here is not to get earth shattering data. It's just about experiencing the process.

Familiarize yourself with Qualtrics by following the setup instructions on the next page of this module. Then, take the sample survey on the next page. As part of the journal entry for this unit, you should come up with around 10 questions. Try to use at least three types of questions, with at least one being qualitative (free response, short answer, or similar). We'll distribute the surveys through a discussion forum on Blackboard next week. You will report your results from the mini-survey in the Prospectus.

Link: [Qualtrics Instructions](http://www.research.olemiss.edu/resources/surveys)

Link: [Example Survey](http://uofmississippi.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_8kWtnCLm7OSqI9T)

## Suggested Structure for the Prospectus
As the assignment description indicates, your research prospectus should consist of the following sections in addition to the title and bibliography pages:  1) Abstract; 2) Introduction with literature review; 3) Report of In-Class Mini Survey Results; 4) Large-Scale Proposed Study Methods; and 5) Conclusion. This part of the module is designed to provide you with further information about what each of the aforementioned sections should include.

### Abstract:
The abstract, which should be no longer than ½ of a page, should situate your project within your academic field – it should state how the research you are proposing fits into the knowledge established by your discipline and why members of the discipline should care about your project.  Further, the abstract should address the anticipated results of your project based on your research and the analysis of your findings from the mini survey exercise.

### Introduction with literature review:
The introduction with literature review should accomplish multiple goals. Like any other introduction, it should be engaging so that it can grasp the audience’s attention, but it must also offer sufficient information to make clear the purpose of your paper, to provide a synthesis of relevant and important research in the field regarding your topic/proposed research question, and to understand the significance of your proposed research (i.e., how will your proposed research contribute to advancing knowledge and/or improving practices in your field?). You should cite at least 3 of your secondary sources in this section.

### Report on Mini Survey Results
Based on the responses and feedback you get from the mini-survey, report on preliminary data for your research project. This section can be part report, part reflection: In other words, if you didn't get any useful information from your survey, explore how you might redesign the questions or the delviery method of the survey in order to make it more effective. This section will probably be pretty short, but be sure you contextualzie the mini-survey exercise with the larger purpose of the prospectus.

### Large-Scale Proposed Study Methods:
The large-scale proposed study methods section should identify your proposed research question(s) for the large-scale project as well as the methods you would use to collect and analyze data to respond to that question/those questions. Provide thorough descriptions of your proposed methods and justifications for their use, which may include citing prior studies that have used the same or similar methods. The methods section should be as detailed as possible so that the reader clearly understands how you would intend to pursue your large-scale project and why you would take the approach you are proposing.

### Conclusion:
The conclusion should restate the significance of your proposed project in terms of what it will contribute to your academic discipline’s knowledge and/or practices, note any changes that you made to your proposal based on the results of your small-scale pilot study, propose possibilities for future research that could be done based on the potential results of your proposed larger project, etc.
