# Research Ethics
if you've read through the Prospectus learning module, you now have a good understanding of the primary research design component of the prospectus, and a little bit about the mini-survey project you’ll be working on as a part of the unit. This module will focus on the broader concept of research ethics and regulatory compliance. This applies to primary research, which you’ll remember means original research, or research that takes place at the source. Some examples of primary research from previous Writing 250 classes include:

* bservation of children in the classroom
* physical fitness tests
* surveys of a target population
* reviews of primary financial documents. 
 
All of these projects have ethical considerations, and it’s important for you to be aware the safeguards you have to build into a project to ensure that it remains ethical.

## Human Subjects Research 
First, let’s talk about the different types of primary research. For your majors, primary research falls into two categories: work with original documents or archival work, and human subject research. This module will focus on human subject research. Not that other types of original research don’t have ethical considerations, but you aren’t in the hard sciences, so you won’t be doing research on rodents or nuclear reactors.

Basically, any research that involves other people falls under the category of human subject research, and is the subject of institutional scrutiny. Why? There’s a long history of runaway research that has harmed people, or has otherwise been unethical. You might be familiar with the [Tuskeegee Syphilis Study](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tuskegee_syphilis_experiment), which allowed African American men from Alabama to suffer from untreated syphilis for decades, all under the guise of receiving free treatment from the state. The stated purpose of this experiment was, of course, to study the progression of the disease. But, researchers did a lot of harm to innocent people to get their results.

There are different shades of unethical research, and sometimes a researcher has good intentions. In one example, a sociologist wanted to study the reactions of restaurants to angry customer complaint letters. The researcher sent fake letters to several restaurants that contained details about real people: As a result, people were fired from their jobs, the restaurants received negative news media attention, and more. This research project backfired, and had serious ethical consequences. Can you think of other examples?

YouTube Video: [The Belmont Report and Research Ethics](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jD-YCDE_5yw)

## Institutional Review Board
At universities, the end result of the Belmont report has been the creation of institutional review boards. Any human subject research has to pass an IRB review before the project can begin. Because we aren’t really doing real primary research for this class, you won’t have to apply for IRB approval. But, we are going to go over the categories of review so that you are familiar with the terminology used. The Ole Miss IRB is composed primarily of faculty members from disciplines in which research involving human subjects is integral to that discipline's work, researchers whose primary interests are non-scientific, as well as members from the community.

What is the Ole Miss IRB's Mission?

* The role of the Institutional Review Board (IRB) is to review all proposed research involving human subjects to ensure that subjects are treated ethically and that their rights and welfare are adequately protected.
* The IRB is composed primarily of faculty members from disciplines in which research involving human subjects is integral to that discipline's work, researchers whose primary interests are non-scientific, as well as members from the community. The human subjects review process is administered through the ORSP’s Research Integrity and Compliance Division.
 
Can you think of why it might be a good idea to have non-scientists on the board? Well, I once saw a poster that said something like “biology majors can tell you how to clone a dinosaur. Philosophy majors can tell you why that may be a bad idea.” The human subjects review process is administered through the ORSP’s Research Integrity and Compliance Division.

## IRB Review Categories
There are three review categories. The first category is Exempt. Research is reviewed for exempt status or level 1 review by an IRB committee member if it involves basically no risk.  There are several types of research that may qualify for Exempt status. In general, research which does not propose to disrupt or manipulate the normal life experiences of subjects, incorporate any form of intrusive procedures, or involve deception will be exempt from full Committee review. Projects that involve more than very minimal risk and those that include any degree of deception do not qualify for Exempt status. If your research project deals with protected classes, it cannot be exempt.

The next category is expedited review. Though not necessarily quicker, expedited review involves less paperwork and overhead. Fewer reviewers are involved, and the project is not subject to review by the entire IRB board. Expedited review is for projects with minimal risk for which adequate consent procedures are in place. Basically, this works for projects where the probability of harm or discomfort is no higher in the project than it would be for everyday life. Research that has already been reviewed, but has had changes made to its methods, can also go through expedited review.

Finally, full board review is for everything else. In a full review, the entire IRB board reviews and votes on the compliance of a project. Full board review is required for any project that deals with vulnerable populations or deception of any kind.

Again, you won’t be applying for IRB approval for this project, but you should familiarize yourself with the procedures. There are two different application forms for IRB approval. The abbreviated form is less complicated, and works for surveys, interviews, or observations. Take a look at both forms on the next pages of this module read through them, and be sure to note in your prospectus which one you think would be necessary to complete if you were submitting your project to the IRB for review.

Consent forms can be an essential part of an IRB application. Take a look at the template (later in this module), and think about what your consent form would look like. Feel free to design one and include it in the appendix to your prospectus.

Link: [UM IRB Forms](http://www.research.olemiss.edu/irb-forms)

## Module Summary
For the IRB "worst case scenario" exercise, go back to your informal topic proposal. Think about the primary research project you originally suggested, and brainstorm what the worst possible scenario would be for that project in terms of ethics, IRB compliance, or harm to your subjects. For example, if your project involves making old people run on treadmills, a negative scenario would be someone having a heart attack in the middle of the test. What would you do to prevent that from happening? What safeguards would you put in place for the study just in case something like that does happen? Write two short paragraphs for this post. In one, write about what the worst possible scenario would be for your project as currently envisioned. Then, in the second paragraph, discuss how you will design the actual study to ensure that the worst possible scenario does not happen.