Welcome to Writing 250: Advanced Composition. My name is Andrew Davis, and I'm the instructor for this section. This section is online only. That means we won't meet face to face unless you want to meet with me individually. Our entire course will take place through Blackboard, Google Classroom and other digital spaces. The course is not self-paced, but it is designed to be flexible enough to fit your schedule. This module will guide you through everything you need to know to succeed in this course</span>.</p>

<h1>What is Writing 250?</h1>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">Writing 250 is an Advanced Composition course. You will learn about writing in and about your major or chosen discipline. This class is just as much about the writing process as it is the research process. The idea is that you will learn strategies and methods in this class that will help you write longer papers or create larger research projects in upper-level classes for your major. </span></p>
<p> </p>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">Though this class is designated as a 200-level course for sophomores, the reality is that many people take is when they are seniors. If that's you, you can think about the course more as a reflection on previous research and writing rather than an exploration. It can serve as a bridge between academic writing and professional writing. Writing 250 assumes a degree of common knowledge. We don't be focusing on the core concepts related to the writing process you should have learned in Writing 101 or 102. Instead, we'll build upon them. For example, we won't take much time to talk about grammar, punctuation, or basic paragraph structure nor will my feedback to you focus on these things. We are more interested in more global concepts related to writing and research. </span></p>
<p>  </p>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">By the end of this course, you should be able to propose, develop, and execute a successful academic research paper that is sophisticated and realistic and you should be able to apply the skill set you learn from developing it to other real-world writing situations.</span></p>

<h1>What will you write?</h1>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">You will have three primary types of writing tasks in Writing 250. The major assignments are large-scale writing projects with many components. They make up the majority of your grade. Each major assignment requires the submission of a first draft and a final revision. You must submit both in order to get credit for the assignment. Major Assignments have a revise and resubmit policy. This means that you may propose a revision plan if you aren't satisfied with your grade. Please see the "about the course" folder for more details about this policy.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;"> </span></p>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">You will submit major assignments to Google Classroom. There is a modules to walk you through using Google Classroom, but it is very e<span><span>asy</span></span> to u<span><span>se</span></span>, a<span><span>nd</span></span> I t<span><span>hink</span></span> y<span>ou'll </span>find it less f<span><span>rustrating</span></span> t<span><span>han</span></span> Blackboard. You <span><span>wil</span></span>l be ab<span><span>le</span></span> to revise, e<span><span>dit</span></span>, and peer review your documents for m<span><span>ajor</span></span> assignments <span><span>usi</span></span><span><span>ng</span></span> the tools b<span><span>ui</span></span><span><span>lt-</span></span>in to G<span><span>oogle</span></span> Drive. </span></p>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;"> </span></p>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;"> In addition to major writing assignments, you will have a number of "Research Toolbox" posts to be completed in Blackboard journals. These are designed to supplement major assignments. Finally, you will occasionally have to complete discussion forum posts that require interaction with other students in the course.</span></p>
<h1>Major Assignments<</h1>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">Writing 250 has five major assignments. Each one is designed to show competency in the course outcomes and learning objectives. Assignments are sequenced in a way that makes them build upon one another. </span></p>
<p> </p>
<h4><span style="font-size: medium;">Assignment 1: Exploratory Essay </span></h4>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">In this assignment, you will learn about common topics of research in your discipline through an investigation of academic journal articles. The exploratory essay is designed to give you the framework and vocabulary to participate in the research conversation that takes place in your field. </span></p>
<h4> </h4>
<h4><span style="font-size: medium;">Assignment 2: Annotated Bibliography</span></h4>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">By the time you get to this assignment, you will have developed an informal proposal for a large scale research project. The annotated bibliography is the first step in developing the research proposal. It will teach you how to work with secondary sources. It will also help you to identify gaps in existing research, and locate "ways in" to the academic conversation. </span></p>
<p> </p>
<h4><span style="font-size: medium;">Assignment 3: Literature R<span><span><span><span>eview</span></span></span></span></span></h4>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">The literature review is based based on the sources you will assemble for the annotated bibliography. The literature review is the peak of the course, and probably the most challenging assignment. </span></p>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;"> </span></p>
<h4><span style="font-size: medium;">Assignment 4: R<span><span>esearch</span></span> S<span><span>tudy</span></span> Design </span></h4>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">The research study design, also called a "prospectus," is a formal research proposal. In the prospectus, you will propose a large-scale original research project based on secondary research from the literature review and your own primary research. </span></p>
<p>  </p>
<h4><span style="font-size: medium;">Assignment 5: Research Presentation</span></h4>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">Your research presentation goes along with the prospectus. You will complete the presentation as digital poster or <span><span>webtext</span></span>. </span></p>
<p> </p>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">Smaller assignments, including your research toolbox posts, are a part of the heavily-weighted Research Toolbox portion of your grade. Other assignments in this category may include discussion forum posts and peer reviews. Smaller assignments are evaluated based on completion. Complete submissions receive 100%, partially-completed work receives 50%, and failure to attempt an assignment will receive a 0.</span></p>
<h1>Readings and Media</h1>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">As you know, this section of Writing 250 does not use an assigned textbook. Instead, we will rely on free/open resources available <span><span>online</span></span>. All of t<span><span>hese</span></span> r<span><span>eadings</span></span> a<span><span>nd</span></span> r<span><span>esources</span></span> will be organized by week in Blackboard. I<span>t's </span>i<span><span>mportant</span></span> that y<span><span>ou</span></span> keep up w<span><span>ith</span></span> the re<span><span>ading</span></span>/media material: Part of the t<span><span>rade</span></span>-off of not requiring a textbook is that the <span><span>online</span></span> r<span><span>esources</span></span> are e<span><span>ven</span></span> more i<span><span>mportant</span></span> to your learning. Learning modules a<span><span>nd</span></span> o<span><span>ther</span></span> s<span><span>ubstantive</span></span> material will use adaptive r<span><span>elease</span></span> criteria: that means y<span><span>ou</span></span> w<span><span>ont</span></span> be able to m<span><span>ove</span></span> on in the course u<span><span>ntil</span></span> y<span><span>ou</span></span> have c<span><span>ompleted</span></span> the a<span><span>ssociated</span></span> re<span><span>ading</span></span>. Each learning module <span><span>wi</span></span>ll have a very s<span><span>hort</span></span> "did I get this" quiz at the e<span><span>nd</span></span>. T<span><span>hese</span></span> quizzes do not i<span><span>mpact</span></span> your g<span><span>rade</span></span>, b<span><span>ut</span></span> are i<span><span>nstead</span></span> a self-check s<span><span>tudy</span></span> tool for y<span><span>ou</span></span> to m<span><span>ake</span></span> s<span><span>ure</span></span> you're keeping up w<span><span>ith</span></span> the c<span><span>ontent</span></span> of the c<span><span>ourse</span></span>. </span></p>
<p> </p>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">We <span><span>wi</span></span>ll make u<span><span>se</span></span> of m<span><span>ultimedia</span></span> resources as m<span><span>uch</span></span> as <span><span>po</span></span><span><span>ssible</span></span>. Videos, <span><span>podcasts</span></span>, and i<span><span>nteractive</span></span> me<span><span>dia</span></span> can be just as useful (and <span><span>im</span></span><span><span>portant</span></span>) to your learning as <span><span>te</span></span><span><span>xt</span></span>, so be <span><span>su</span></span>re that y<span><span>ou</span></span> pay <span><span>att</span></span><span><span>ention</span></span> to th<span><span>ose</span></span>, to</span>o.</p>
<h1>Module Summary: Success in Writing 250</h1>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">Part of being successful in an <span><span><span><span>online</span></span></span></span> class is learning how to develop your own <span><span><span><span>workflow</span></span></span></span> and meet deadlines. Due-dates for major assignments are firm, and are already scheduled (see the syllabus or the course calendar for details). Work submitted between 0 and 72 hours late will receive a 25% penalty. Work received more than 72 hours late will not be accepted. On the other hand, I am happy to grant extensions. You must contact me at least 24 hours in advance of a due-date to request an extension. In your request, you should lay out a specific plan for completing the task and meeting its objectives in the new time-span. Extension requests should be emailed. </span></p>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;"> </span></p>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">Though there is no "attendance" requirement for this course, you should plan to access the Blackboard course every day. However, you must access it at least twice per week. I am always available by email. I'll usually reply to messages within 30 minutes before 6pm on a weekday. You may also call my office phone between 8 and 5. My office is located in Lamar Hall, Suite B, Room 22. That’s on the third floor. I will hold <span><span><span><span>online</span></span></span></span> office hours through G<span><span><span><span>oogle</span></span></span></span> Chat, Slack, and Zoom. More details about <span><span><span><span>online</span></span></span></span> office hours are in the "about the course" folder.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;"> </span></p>
<p><span style="font-size: medium;">You're now ready to go on to the second Learning Module for this week, where you'll learn about rhetoric and academic conversations. </span></p>
